Add Intelligent Storage Acceleration (#32588)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/isal.markdown

---
title: Intelligent Storage Acceleration
description: Intelligent Storage Acceleration
ha_release: 2024.6
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bdraco'
ha_domain: isal
ha_integration_type: system
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_iot_class: Local Push
---

> Intelligent Storage Acceleration (`isal`) is used for accelerating `aiohttp`. `zlib` is be a bottleneck for `aiohttp`, especially for websocket connections.

Author: ```suggestion
[`zlib`](https://github.com/madler/zlib) is a bottleneck for [`aiohttp`](https://github.com/aio-libs/aiohttp), especially for WebSocket connections. [Intelligent Storage Acceleration](https://github.com/intel/isa-l), is used for accelerating [`aiohttp`](https://github.com/aio-libs/aiohttp) since it can [speed up](https://github.com/pycompression/python-isal/tree/develop/benchmark_scripts) compression as much as 5x.
```

## Configuration

> Configuration of this integration only applies to core install types. Container based installs already have `isal` pre-installed and no action is required.

Author: ```suggestion
Configuration of this integration only applies to core install types. Container-based installs already have `isal` pre-installed, and no action is required.
```

> Configuration of this integration only applies to core install types. Container-based installs already have `isal` pre-installed, and no action is required.

Author: ```suggestion
Configuration of this integration only applies to Home Assistant Core installations types. Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Supervisor, and Home Assistant Operation System installs already have `isal` pre-installed, and no action is required.
```
